## What's known about livestream on NX camera

Samsung NX wifi cameras are capable of broadcasting live stream to the remote client. To access that stream there are 2 URLs:
	http://192.168.107.1:7679/livestream.avi
	http://192.168.107.1:7679/qvga_livestream.avi
of high and low quality.
However, they are not standard for any stock media playing software and media playing API-s alike.
The only software that is capable of receiving that stream is ffplay from ffmpeg package.

The problem is about 2 things:
 * HTTP 206 error while accessing to the stream
 * RIFF header of the incoming video.
The w3c states that HTTP 206 - partical content, means that there should be a range defined by the request, but that seems not the case with continuous video stream.
The problem of 206th error might be resolved by means of establishing proxy that passes
    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
to the client instead of error. That at least was a case with VLC media player, but no other player still is that capable to stream contents. Which leads us to the second problem: zero length.
Definitely, the stream is continuous, so it can't have a length. However there might be a trick to redefine the header and pass only the part of the video, then passing new header and new chunk of video etc.
Here's how original header of stream file looks like:
RIFF ('AVI '
      LIST ('hdrl'
			'avih' 56 0 0 0 272 0 0 1 0 640 480)
      LIST ('strl'
			'strh' 56 'vids' 'H264 ' 0 0 0 0 1001 30000 0 0 1048576 10000 921600)
     ...
Redefining zeros in positions 2,3,6 of avih header (counting from 'avih') and 11th of strh (counting from 'strh') which are dwMicroSecPerFrame, dwMaxBytesPerSec, dwTotalFrames, dwLength subsequently according to a header description from [Microsoft](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/dd318189%28v=vs.85%29.aspx) to some meaningful values would possibly define a range for video stream and make it viewable on stock media players and available for various API-s as well as preventing screen tearing that plagues VLC.
Also as ffplay works, maybe it would be better to port it to various platforms and call it a day.

developing..

## Additional topics
 * [Connecting as remote viewfinder to NX camera](https://github.com/Nikolas-LFDesigns/samsung-nx-hacks/blob/master/RVF.mdwn)
